Define the VISION (#2772)
hyperium/hyper: docs/VISION.md

They also require hyper to be **Fast**, for similar reasons that the web server frameworks do.

### New Rust Web Developers

These are developers who are either new to Rust, or new to web servers, and have reached for hyper to start with.

It's likely that these users don't have strong opinions about how an HTTP server or client should work, just that it _should_ handle all the things they normally assume it would. For these users, it would be best to quickly help them compare their own expectations with hyper's capabitilities, and may suggest reaching for higher-level, _easier_ libraries instead.

Those that stick around after that recommendation are users that wish both to learn at a lower level, and to pick and choose what batteries they plug in to hyper as they move along. While they do care about the other tenets, that hyper is **Understandable** is of extra importance to them.

## The Library

So with all that context in mind, what does hyper, the library, actually look like? This doesn't highlight what _is_ and _isn't_ present. What currently needs to change to reach this vision is left to individual version roadmaps.

### Layers

> In all cases, a user brings their own runtime and IO to work with hyper. The IO is provided to hyper, and hyper acts on top of it. hyper returns `Future`s that the user then decides how to poll, likely involving their runtime options.

Reviewer: Could you add something here, and possibly in the tenets, about the degree to which hyper provides optional runtime integration? For instance, hyper currently has an optional `runtime` feature; what criteria would hyper use to evaluate proposals for additional such features? (e.g. maintainability, not compromising higher-priority tenets) Similarly, what criteria would be used to evaluate (optional) integration with various different versions of traits such as `AsyncRead`/`AsyncWrite`?

These seem like questions people will reasonably ask, for which it'd be helpful to have a reference in the tenets and vision.

# hyper Vision

## Purpose

This is an overview of what the shape of hyper looks like, but also somewhat
zoomed out, so that the _vision_ can survive while the exact minute details
might shift and change over time.

### Charter

> hyper is a protective and efficient HTTP library for all.

### Tenets

Tenets are guiding principles. They guide how decisions are made for the whole
project. Ideally, we do all of them all the time. In some cases, though, we may
be forced to decide between slightly penalizing one goal or another. In that
case, we tend to support those goals that come earlier in the list over those
that come later (but every case is different).

0. Open
1. Correct
2. Fast
3. HTTP/\*
4. Flexible
5. Understandable

There's a lot more detail about each in [TENETS](./TENETS.md).

## Use Cases

Who are the *users* of hyper? How would they use hyper?

### Low-Level Client Library (curl, reqwest, aws-sdk)

These client libraries care that hyper is **Flexible**, since they are
expressing their own opinion on how a more-featured HTTP client should act.
This includes opinions on connection establishment, management, pooling, HTTP
version options, and even runtimes.

> curl's main reason for using hyper is that it is **Safe**.

Reviewer 2: Not sure, but maybe there is some subterm we can split them by, `featureful client libraries` vs `foundational client libraries` or something. Just a thought.

have reached for hyper to start with.

It's likely that these users don't have strong opinions about how an HTTP
server or client should work, just that it _should_ handle all the things they
normally assume it would. For these users, it would be best to quickly help
them compare their own expectations with hyper's capabitilities, and may
suggest reaching for higher-level, _easier_ libraries instead.

Those that stick around after that recommendation are users that wish both to
learn at a lower level, and to pick and choose what batteries they plug in to
hyper as they move along. While they do care about the other tenets, that hyper
is **Understandable** is of extra importance to them.

## The Library

So with all that context in mind, what does hyper, the library, actually look
like? This doesn't highlight what _is_ and _isn't_ present. What currently
needs to change to reach this vision is left to individual version roadmaps.

### Layers

In all cases, a user brings their own runtime and IO to work with hyper. The IO
is provided to hyper, and hyper acts on top of it. hyper returns `Future`s that
the user then decides how to poll, likely involving their runtime options.

> ![](https://i.imgur.com/ly6g75q.png)

Reviewer 2: should this live in the repo itself?

#### Protocol Codecs

hyper has dedicated codecs for the major HTTP versions. Each is internally
designed to be **Correct** and **Fast** when it comes to encoding and decoding.

The individual codecs may be implemented as sub-crates, with a less-stable
promise, to support the **Flexible** needs of some users who wish to build
their own connection management, or customize encoding and decoding beyond what
is officially supported.

#### Connection State Management

A **Correct** implementation includes more than just enforcing certain
characters when encoding and decoding. Order of frames, and flags in certain
frames can affect the state of the connection. Some examples of things enforced
at this layer:

- If a message has a `content-length`, enforce only that many bytes are read or
  written.
- Reading a `Response` before a `Request` is even written implies a mismatched
  reply that should be interpretted as an error.

> - The presense of some headers, such as `Connection: close`, or the absense of

Reviewer 2: nit: typos
```suggestion
- The presence of some headers, such as `Connection: close`, or the absence of
```

  others, such as `content-length` and `transfer-encoding`, can mean that the
  connection should terminate after the current message.
- HTTP/2 and HTTP/3 may send connection-level frames that don't pertain to any
  specific transaction, and must be read and handled regardless of if a user is
  currently checking for a message.

#### HTTP Role and Version Abstraction

This is the public API layer. Methods exposed are around sending and receiving
`http::Request`s and `http::Response`s, not around framing specifics of the
different versions. These are built around a client or server `Connection`
interface.

By exposing this layer publicly, we take care of the **Correct** tenet, by not
forcing the user to send the specific frames themselves. The API should be
designed in a way that a user cannot easily (if at all) create an _incorrect_
HTTP connection.

Motivated by the **Flexible** tenet, there _are_ version-specific options that
can be configured at this level, and version-specific functionality can usually

> be handled via `http::Extensions`.

Reviewer 3: Is it worth discussing what the vision is for cases that fall outside of what can be handled with `Extensions`? To use the example we discussed in Discord recently, suppose we want to handle custom h2 frames that arrive interleaved with the data frames, which therefore can arrive after the head is received and `Extensions` can no longer be modified.

Reviewer 3: #1586 and #2426 are other possibly relevant cases to consider here

### Not quite stable, but utile (useful)

Beyond what is directly in the hyper crate, there are useful (utile) parts that
may not meet hyper's stability promise. Developing, experimenting, and exposing
those parts is the purpose of the `hyper-util` crate. That crate does not have
the same stability level as hyper. However, the goal is that things that other
libraries might want to expose as a public dependency do not live in
`hyper-util` forever, but rather stabilize and get promoted into `hyper`.

Exactly what gets put into `hyper-util` presently is kept in the roadmap

> documents.

Reviewer 2: Do we have a link to the roadmap we can add here?

Author: The roadmap to 1.0 is being written at this very moment, and will be a new PR soon.

### Stability Promise

What even is hyper's stability promise? Does it mean we are "done"? No. Will we
ever make breaking changes again? Probably. We'll still follow the [semantic
versioning](https://semver.org).

Prior to 1.0, hyper has already only done breaking changes once a year. So 1
year isn't much of a promise. We'll have significant more use and understanding
after a few years, and that could prompt some redesign.

As of this writing, we'll promise that _major_ versions of hyper are stable for
3 years. New features will come out in _minor_ versions frequently. If it is
determined necessary to make breaking changes to the API, we'll save them for
after the 3 years.

hyper also establishes a Minimum Supported Rust Version (MSRV). hyper will
support Rust versions at least 6 months old. If a new Rust version is released
with a feature hyper wishes to use, we won't do so until at least 6 months
afterwards. hyper will only ever require a new Rust version as a _minor_
release (1.x), not as a patch (1.x.y).

## Security

> The security of hyper is a large part of what makes hyper _protective_. We make

Reviewer 2: Other than in the charter, this is the only other usage of the word `protective`. Would be good to expound on it a bit. This line begs the question: "what other parts of hyper also make it protective?". I think that might already be answered in the doc but it would be good to make the association between the term `protective` and some of the other points on this doc more explicit.  And maybe also explicitly define what we mean by `protective` somewhere in the doc?

hyper secure via the combined efforts of being **Correct**, focusing on
**HTTP/\***, and making it all **Understandable**.

### Memory Safety

Being **Correct** requires that hyper be memory-safe. Using the Rust language

> gets us most of the way there. But it there is the ability to write `unsafe`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
gets us most of the way there. But there is the ability to write `unsafe`
```
